README.md, before:

# K-means (C/OpenMP) — VTune-driven Optimization

OpenMP optimization of a K-means clustering implementation (Intel `icx`, `-qopenmp`) with profiling-driven changes and correctness validation.

## Project summary
Optimized a sequential K-means clustering implementation in C using **OpenMP** on multi-core CPUs. Used **Intel VTune** to identify bottlenecks, implemented parallel regions with reduced synchronization (thread-local accumulation + merge), tuned scheduling (`dynamic,25`), and evaluated scaling across multiple thread counts.
## Approach (summary)
- Hotspot identification with **Intel VTune** (distance / nearest-cluster / centroid update).
- Avoided fine grain and nested parallelism, parallelized over objects (better granularity).
- Used **thread-local accumulators** for centroid sums/counts, minimized synchronization and tuned scheduling (`dynamic,25`).
- Verified outputs vs baseline (membership identical; centers ~`1e-6` abs diff from FP reduction order).

## Result
- **3.480s (serial)** → **0.189s (OpenMP, 28 threads)** = **18.4× speedup**
- 56 threads: **0.216s (16.1×)** (regression from synchronization/overhead)

## Build
Requires Intel oneAPI compiler (`icx`):
```bash
make -C src

Commit message:

Revise README for K-means Clustering project
Updated README to reflect performance engineering focus and optimization results for K-means clustering using OpenMP.

README.md, after:

# K-means Clustering (C + OpenMP) — Performance Engineering

Performance optimized a sequential K-means clustering implementation in C using **OpenMP** on a multi-core CPU. The focus is on profiling driven optimization, reducing synchronization/critical-path overhead and evaluating scaling behavior across thread counts.

## Key result
- Reduced runtime from **3.480 s** (serial baseline) to **0.189 s** at **28 threads** (**18.4× speedup**).
- Performance was evaluated across thread counts, best time occurred at 28 threads (56 threads showed diminishing returns due to overhead/pressure).

## Project summary
Starting from a correct sequential K-means implementation, I used **Intel VTune** to identify hotspots and then implemented and tuned OpenMP parallel regions. Key changes included handling of per-thread work, minimizing shared-state contention and selecting an effective scheduling strategy for the workload.

## Optimization highlights
- **Profiling-driven workflow:** used Intel VTune to locate hotspots and verify that changes moved time out of the critical path.
- **OpenMP parallelization:** parallelized the compute heavy regions and tuned thread-level behavior.
- **Reduced synchronization overhead:** limited contention by avoiding unnecessary shared updates in hot loops.
- **Scheduling & scaling:** evaluated scaling across thread counts and tuned scheduling (`dynamic,25`) to improve load balance.

## Build
This project uses Intel oneAPI `icx` with OpenMP enabled (per `src/Makefile`):
```bash
make -C src
